the instinctual solution would be what
you have to do is find meaning in life
right like that's the standard answer
like if you're unhappy and your life has
no meaning
go and find meaning like we have this
discord thing that you can join to where
people talk about what's wrong with the
world
I think that's useful but what I want
everyone to understand is that in in
Kevin's case it's not just finding
meaning it's finding when meaning went
away because when you are nine or 10
like life hopefully has meaning like
it's just it's simple meaning but its
meaning
on you buddy yeah we're gonna do
meditation don't worry promise you guys
meditation we're going to do it but I
feel like we have to do this real quick
hey cannabis yeah can you yeah I don't
have a webcam and I'm from Denmark so
hope the that's the accent is all right
cool no problem
can you guys hear lupus
okay so lupus use you made a statement
earlier about you feel like you're
suffering is because you have a lot of
expectations I would think so like yes
what do you mean by that I think every
time I want to make a change or when I
view my life it's it's really hot
ah it's hard to formulate that's what I
take your time
so when I think of for example what what
really ignited how I feel right now is
the break-up I had with my girlfriend
and I came to a realization that I had
build up everything in my life around
being with her and nothing about being
with me so the attachment to to every
far I had in the future was based really
around being with her and not being with
my like with myself laughing yeah yeah
so I think that's that's so I think this
is gonna be a short call you're welcome
to come back on later but I think that's
the crux of it right so here's the
reason that you don't have a life worth
living is because you constructed this
castle of a life with her in your mind
and so that was the life that was worth
living
and it involved her like you built this
castle with her in mind and she was a
part of every brick each of those bricks
that you placed with her in mind is one
attachment this is where you were gonna
live this is what Monday's would be like
this is what Tuesday's would be like
this is when you would or wouldn't have
kids or you guys were gonna talk about
having kids
you're gonna visit family not visit
family everything in life involves her
that's what I'm hearing from you yeah
and the way that that I've thought about
it is like how I feel now on my
education and on my everyday life is
that I I have no desire to complete my
final education because if
be it the desire was to like go to work
and then come home to her it wasn't to
contend with work yeah so do you guys
see this do you see how like the reason
that so this isn't necessarily
depression right this is an attachment
to a fantasy and fulfillment of that
fantasy was the driving force and lupus
is life
like it was all to create this life and
now that the girlfriend is out of the
picture the life comes crumbling down
and all of your reasons for living and
suffering and trying suffering isn't the
right word for like you know doing
things that are not fun we're based on
this ideal so now lupus how old are you
what do I call you by the way okay you
can call me Kevin if it's better sure
but how I feel is that even without her
I'm still sad like I don't know how it's
really hard to formulate yeah yeah so I
think you have so I think the tricky
thing here is that you have sadness how
long ago did y'all break up it was a
one-way you go yeah we go okay
but the like the feeling of non
fulfillment or the the feeling of of
sadness and and that whole charade has
has been going on for years surroundings
a couple of traumatic events and I think
the I was I think that I was sad before
I met her but she made the like the
reasons to live better like I didn't
really have any reasons to do anything
before meeting her and then when I met
her like everything was based around
this whole fact and we've been together
for five years so so the state of being
unhappy has been really long but she has
she the whole like so not suffering you
you distinguish Beth but but being sad
worth it because I could go home to hers
exactly so I want you guys I want
everyone to and you to understand this
Kevin the sadness in hurt your
relationship with her are independent
things that's what I've been saying all
along and the problem is that your lack
of fulfillment could be numbed because
of the positivity of your relationship
with her
yeah I hate them yeah so like us only
now it's only now that I realize this
yes and so this is the big problem is
that everyone is gonna think that you're
feeling unfulfilled because you broke up
with her she broke up with you or
whatever but you have to understand that
your search for meaning predated her
yeah and that the only way to fix that
problem is to find meaning like you can
forget it
you can distract yourself with
girlfriends video games parties booze
you can distract yourself as much as you
want to but this is my whole point this
is what would they realize is that
suffering is independent from all that
other crap your search so you have kind
of different things going on right so
there's sadness because you broke up
with someone that you've been with for
five years that's like absolutely like a
psychosomatic thing there are just parts
of your physiology that are gonna make
you feel sad yeah unfortunately you're
just gonna have to feel that way for
some time there are a lot of things that
you can do that you know people kind of
like common wisdom will say like so
spending time with nature is great it
sounds like you're from Europe so it's
probably cold where you are yeah it's
freezing in Denmark yeah so if you're in
Denmark so I don't know exactly what
what people do there but you know I'd
say like you know listen to sad music
spend time with nature spend time with
animals spend time with people that care
about you all those things are important
and there are two other things to think
about
one is that some of your suffering is
going to be because of the shattered
expectations from this relationship and
one of those shattered expectations this
is a really important one is that as
long as she was in your life you didn't
have to figure out that other source of
deeper sadness that she was going to
cure you of that other deeper sadness
that's the most dangerous expectation
but now you realize that she hasn't
cured you of and that it's still there
yeah it's all it's also a realization
that that that I've had myself thinking
about the whole breakup and stuff
because I'm as you saying sad that we
broke up but now I have this other
feeling that have been gone for five
years and then predates all of this and
predates all into my teens and and stuff
like that and and I think I had I can
really distinguish between those two
elements and I know that I have to work
on the under ladder
exactly right so that's so I think it's
awesome that you recognized that these
are two fundamentally different things
and this is what like that hopefully
I've Illustrated it enough and for all
of you all of that are listening
understand that like happiness and
unhappiness and depression or like two
different things
and this is the conversation that I have
with people is that we could treat your
depression we've sort of dealt with your
depression now you're unhappy there's a
different road for that but I have a
question than the box
my sadness relating to my girlfriend I
know a sadness and and suffering to it
to a certain degree but
can i still be depressed because yes
alright because my whole life I have had
this numbness to to a desire to do
anything in my life to complete anything
meaningful even even things that really
interests me and then I want to pour
things into and it I can agree I know
the trauma that that really did that set
this off I don't know if you want to go
into like specifics or anything well my
dad got sick when I was around 12 years
old and I've known from that certain
place in my life to now that that I have
had that feeling so before it's it's
kind of candid I don't know if that's
just childhood memories and nostalgia
stuff but but I know that was the
trigger and then certain traumas after
that so okay
keep going so so can this like
I have never went to a psychiatrist or
psychologist or anything about this
sadness I only went last year and I
didn't follow up on it because I was too
scared to talk about my feelings right
but now chat right yeah you don't you
can't see my face but but now I've
reached out to a doctor and and I get
like I feel I haven't reached out
because my girlfriend broke up with me
but I've I've reached out because now I
can really feel the suffering of not
living like I know I have I I just wink
I distinguish my thoughts between my
feelings and and logic and I know it's
for example I know it's not good to kill
yourself I know it's it's hurting it
would hurt everyone around you and stuff
like that but my feelings say that that
I don't want to live I don't have a
desire to live yeah and this I have
certainly that you have to discover
right so this is where like most people
think and this could be true I don't
know that a desire to live is something
that people just stumble upon
there's this huge assumption that like
the default state is to have a desire to
live and have like goals and passions
and motivations and my experience it
doesn't [ __ ] work like that a desire
to live a reason to live is is something
that is gained through effort and sweat
and hard work exploration pain and
reflection
yeah so how old are you Kevin
twit 26 okay so at your age I was doing
absolutely nothing
like not a damn thing I did from from
college with a shitty GPA didn't have a
job actually I did have a job maybe
actually 26 maybe I was doing something
I took that back
maybe but I mean I think you know you
have to do some soul-searching
anyways yeah but that I mean your life
lacks meaning which is the problem but
also that like meaning is not something
that you stumble upon and in your case I
think part of what's going on is like
this trauma that you said I think is
very significant now this is the other
problem as people confuse like trauma
with depression because both of them
make you feel like not doing anything
but I think the origins of these two
things are very different
so if your root problem is that you
started to feel like life was
meaningless because your dad got sick
when you were 12 that's where the the
work needs to be done yeah and and I
think unresolved traumas can you call
that a trauma like sharable dying and
yeah okay because there are several of
those that that I can like clear that
adjusting how did you when you what do
you remember about when your dad got
sick and you're 12 how did you feel oh
that that it's really rough and I laugh
when I'm when I'm like nervous so yep
yeah
I I actually began when he was in the
hospital I am I'm I was being kind of a
stand-up comedian because
I wanted everybody to laugh and I yeah I
felt really sad I don't know even know
if that's the word because he worked so
much before that I didn't even knew him
and then he was home all the time and
and and the I think the the change in
our life that that he had had to be home
and and change he had to do mentally
like he became another person a
chronically ill person that
I know I was specifically talking about
my feelings towards that the trauma or
I'm getting confused sir yeah I think
you're doing great how did it feel to
see him transform
there was really devastating I think
would be the right word and then what
did it even remote in you it broke
something
yeah it broke like reality that did the
thought that your parents are model and
I certainly had to take on a much larger
responsibility at all I think the
challenge here Kevin I'm gonna just take
a shot in the dark because we're gonna
have to transition soon all right so I'm
sorry no no no I mean I invited you on
and I'm really glad you came on I'm
gonna apologize to you because I think
the challenge here is that the feeling
get created in you is not something that
a 12 year old knows how to put words to
yeah and I still can't put worse
- I'm gonna I'm gonna try I think that
I'm feeling it created for 12 year old
you as what's the [ __ ] point if he
can work so hard and this can happen to
him and you can build so much in life
and then you get to turn into this like
what's the [ __ ] point
yeah
yeah like I've really struggled with
like what's it called and when you don't
care about the outcomes of things it's
it's like a philosophy yeah yeah that
everything is meaningless it's not a
stoic stoic yeah nihilism I have really
struggled with that because one other
time when I was feeling really down I I
really had the thought that everything
was just meaning this yes so this is
something you've gotta really understand
Kevin is like for you for other people
it's a philosophy for you it's a reality
because you saw it happened to you you
saw it happen to your dad you saw the
futility of life get shown to you in the
way that your dad's life crumbled apart
right so for other people it's something
that they read about in a philosophy
class for you you saw that when you were
12 and it left its [ __ ] mark and now
when you say like I have no reason to
live yeah because you don't understand
what the point is because you are like
what's the [ __ ] point if you can just
get destroyed and if this is like if you
can work so hard you can build a life
you can have children you can have
family you can have a career
sounds like you worked a lot and then
you can get sick and it all just goes to
[ __ ] like why bother like I don't think
you're suicidal which I know you've said
you aren't which I'm grateful for I I
think your problem is like what's the
point
yeah and so that feeling was a has its
origins in a lesson that you learned by
watching your father get sick
and until you unlearn that lesson
you're going to continue to feel this
way
good news is that it can be unlocked
and that you can find me it's just 12
year old you didn't understand what was
going on and the problem is that when
we're young the stuff that forms in our
mind stays there but doesn't like grow
with us
and someone was asking is this a some
scar absolutely this is the definition
of a some scar
okay can you briefly say what that is no
okay so I think I talked about some
scars on a prior stream hopefully
there's a there's a so I'll explain it
very briefly so a some scar is a ball of
undigested emotion that sort of
continues to exert an influence on your
mind all right all right that makes
sense yeah so uh the the example that I
use is like if I'm walking down the
street let's say that uh you you ever
hang out with kids Kevin yeah I need uh
nieces are never anything yeah I had a
nice and when I was with my yeah so so
when you how old is your niece nine okay
so you did you hang out with your niece
when she was like six yeah okay I got to
know whether fooled five years okay
great so when you went imagine that your
your niece is six years old and you're
walking down the street and she sees a
dog and she gets excited because she
likes dogs and she pets the dog and the
dog bites her what happens in her mind
what does she feel uh she would feel
scared of the dark absolutely right
she's terrified so thankfully let's say
that the dog didn't really hurt her or
anything like that she doesn't need
medical attention and then yeah she's
your niece so you have presumably
brothers or sisters who are her parents
yeah it was among my girls girl friend
sites oh yeah okay curses yeah okay so
um you know let's say that you're
babysitting the niece and then the the
niece is crying and so you're kind of
thinking like okay how am I gonna calm
this child down and then you walk into a
toy store and then you get her like ten
minutes later she's got a toy in her
hands and what do you think she's
feeling then
joy absolutely right yeah yeah what
happened what happened to the scared
what happened to the fear where'd it go
is it gone mm-hmm no it's still there
but but now she has something else to be
joyous about okay and what so let's say
so how does the how does the fear come
back in her what can bring it back up
like the when she sees a dog absolutely
yeah right yeah and every time she sees
a dog that fear is gonna return yeah
now let's say you're walking down the
street
and you see a dog and you reach out to
pet it and it bites you what's the first
thing that happens in your mind
I wouldn't get scared but yes you would
yes yes scared of more pain yeah in the
first instant you would have the same
reaction is your five-year-old niece
yeah right yeah then what happens in
your mind
yeah I would be able to distinguish and
get over there I think I know what
you're getting at what am I getting at
that the like my niece that emotion
would stay with her for a long time but
as an adult you would be able to
distinguish between having to be scared
of a dark because one beat you and then
approaching another one without being
scared yes in the big difference is that
your mind does some processing of that
emotion live processing it just doesn't
get buried by distraction you actually
think through how you feel and you
process it does that make sense it makes
a lot of sense like so my childhood self
was like bit by this trauma absolutely
and and like now if it happened in in my
later years I would be able to process
it process it in the whole other way so
that it wouldn't affect my everyday life
is that actually Absa right so if if you
had found meaning in your life and your
dad passed away and got sick now you
would still be sad you would still be
grief grieved you would still be
devastated but you would be able to
process it and some people don't and
some people do right because some people
like you know in their 20s something bad
happens to them and they're not able to
recover so now that the big the big
problem the big difference between you
and your niece is that you have the
capacity to process now the 12 year old
year old you did not yeah and so the
good news is you can go back in time and
you can sort of talk to your 12 year old
self
right with the help of a therapist or
someone like that because that makes it
way it easier and with the help of
annotation you can go back and explore
those feelings and you can digest them
yeah because now they right at this
moment they feel numb like I have a hard
time yes
matching bag and feeding anything yeah
do you play RPGs
yeah which RPGs
I've played World of Warcraft okay so
majority don't have an inventory right
yeah problem here is that you picked up
a lot of crap like level five like
swords and [ __ ] yeah you were 12 and
it's sitting in your inventory and it's
clogging up your inventory you never get
rid of it you got to get rid of it it's
just sitting back there and it's like
buried so far in your inventory that you
can't even access it and it like every
time you open your inventory it's there
and it's just [ __ ] taking up space
and like you can't let but like so it's
like it's interfering with things but
you don't it's just there it's just like
you know and so you've got it you've got
to process it you've got to go back and
and so this is the tricky thing is like
the instinctual solution would be what
you have to do is find meaning in life
right like that's the standard answer
like if you're unhappy and your life has
no meaning
go and find meaning like we have this
discord thing that you can join to where
people talk about what's wrong with the
world
I think that's useful but what I want
everyone to understand is that in in
Kevin's case it's not just finding
meaning it's finding when meaning went
away
because when you were nine or ten like
life hopefully has meaning like it's
just it's simple meaning but its meaning
I can read I can just I can like yeah
clearly remember which person I was
before this incident and and which
person I became after the incident yeah
there you go
so you gotta go back and find that
person right yeah there's a guy in chat
saying vendor in your trauma
abso-fucking-lutely that's what you need
to do yeah right you got a vendor you
can't just like it's just hanging out
it's been hanging out there and then the
problem is you you you've had that [ __ ]
in your backpack for 14 years so you
think that your backpack
is like has like thirty less spaces
available like you don't even realize
it's become so normal for you that you
don't even realize that that's just like
you don't realize that you've got 30
backpack slots that are just taking out
my crap because you've had it since the
beginning like as long as you can
remember that makes really a lot of
sense yeah it really does I really feel
like like after the incident like
everything from being able to do well in
school and and like everything yeah the
motivation and the desire to do anything
like it really felt like I only have
like a third of the motivation the third
of everything else the third of the
desire to get up in the morning and yeah
yeah so it looks like two-thirds of your
backpack is full and that [ __ ] is just
swimming around in your unconscious mind
and your
I literally like like so this is
something that I want everyone to
understand about the mind one of the
Swami's I was studying with once told me
that any task that's unfinished like
occupies a bit of RAM in your processor
and trauma to in your case I think the
problem is that two-thirds of your RAM
is being occupied by whatever this is
by what sorry but I like this trauma or
whatever like two-thirds of your
operating power is just like clogged up
yeah and and so the cool thing is that
like like we can talk about finding
meaning and finding Dharma and all that
good stuff you can watch some of the
previous streams about that or what
check out our youtube if you don't know
what I'm talking about yeah but at the
end of the day in your case I think it's
about cleaning house right I think it's
about understanding that at some point
in life you lost your sense of meaning
and life became fundamentally like life
became so this is what happened to you
when you were 12 years old life became a
game not worth playing yeah it's just
not worth it to play anymore and so now
you find yourself at 26 and you're like
why can't I play this game I think this
game is [ __ ] stupid and I'm saying
yeah you do because you learned that
when you were 12 it became a stupid game
now but you got to go back
Yeah right and you've got to find out
like what happened like why did I stink
this game Oh the reason the game [ __ ]
sucks is because my controller got
unplugged
and so I just respawn and I get like
camped by these [ __ ] and I can't
shoot and I can't move
or I can use Waze to like move around
but I can't use my mouse select point
anything now we're playing an FPS by the
way yeah and then it's sure you can you
can in theory you can play FPS with just
a keyboard in theory but boy is that
gonna be a shitty game to play you feel
really crippled yeah and how do you feel
Kevin crippled yeah absolutely yeah so
Plus Mouse back in a name
yeah
okay we're gonna do some meditation like
with me or should I jump I mean you can
hang out on discord if you want to I'm
gonna transition alright alright sure
thank you for your time thank you for
everything you said reach out to Moses
if you want to come back on and we can
talk more yeah sure I'll be here for the
evening and then I go home and sleep and
spend time with my children
oh yeah sure but where you can you can
come on and we can spend like an hour
together okay that would be awesome yeah
I'll uh I'll I'll write Moses okay yeah
sure thank you so much sure how do we do
a round of applause for Kevin okay
thanks a lot Kevin thank you yeah bye
okay
so
yeah so I think I think you know Kevin
was struggling for the words I think
crippled is a good word alright so let's
do let's do meditation now the question
is what kind of meditation are we going
to do to
given the situation today about trauma
meaning